Table of contents1 IntroductionWe live in a dynamic and fast paced world where access to data is no longer limited to having access to a single device. Information is now available and accessible through one click and people are carrying small computers in their hands most of the time by having smart phone devices and are able to access their files from anywhere in the world. Additionally, enterprises use the cloud as a means for collaboration to increase their workforce productivity and to meet their customers’ requirements of having mobile access to products and services.Digital age and user mobility have made data availability crucial not only for individuals but for business alike. Demands for having timely access to data and to ensure data accuracy and redundancy have increased dramatically and the need for technical solutions to meet these requirements has risen accordingly. The solution to reduce the time and efforts that are needed to manage data among different devices and in different locations is by using file synchronization software. File synchronization software is the process to ensuring that files in two or more locations are updated via certain rules (Wikipedia). Additionally, it is used for backup and for mobile access to files. In this project, we are embarked on a new journey where we develop file synchronization software to provide secure and seamless synchronization solution to enable data management processes such as file creation, deletion, modification, distribution, redundancy and availability.Our solution targets different kind of users and can be used in different sectors of business world such as health organizations, educational entities, financial companies and much more. Company’s employees for instance, who work at separate locations can use it to access and distribute files. Individuals can utilize it to upload their holiday photos for example and to view them from their different devices (windows desktop and mobile). It also, can be run on Windows desktops and Android mobile devices at the same time. We named our software after one of the most collaborative animals in the world (Meerkats).In this report, we provide complete information about the file synchronization software project. Detailing information about how we worked together as a team to develop our product, the strategies we used to ensure the delivery of reliable and efficient solution as well as information about the features and the configuration of the software itself I addition to our future plan.2 ReviewFile synchronization softwares are popular and the most famous ones are GoogleDrive, Box, One Drive, and DropBox. We have reviewed those solutions and found them to provide the same basic features as all allow users to access and share data in addition to file synchronization service. Choosing the right synchronization software really depends on user’s needs as each solution excels in things and has weakness in other things. We have focused on file synchronization feature in each solution to understand how it works and its limitations. GoogleDriveStorage and CostSigning up for GoogleDrive provide users with 15 GB for free and it can be increased up to 1TB for only 10$ a month. Google Drive lets users to automatically copy files to their different devices. File Synchronization The solution is compatible with Windows, Mac, Android, iOS and it implements sync folder mechanism, adding a “Google Drive” folder to user’s file system when they install the desktop client (the client is called “Backup & Sync”). Any folder users drop in it gets sent off to the cloud, then onto other devices. The disadvantage of this process that it requires that files be stored both on the users’ hard drive and in the cloud to work, which is not useful if users want to free up their disk space. To address this concern, Google has introduced a new feature to allow users select specific folders to help in free up hard drive space. Users need to click on “preferences” button to open a window that will let them turn sync off for specific folders.One point to mention about GoogleDrive is that it uploads and downloads the entire file all over again when a change is made which takes time but it is worth mentioning that Google has multiple data centers around the world, which decreases both users computer’s distance to the cloud and server congestion at the same time.  figure1DropBoxStorage and CostUsers who sign up to DropBox get 2GB for free. This limited space is considered as disadvantage of using DropBox as users who want to get extra disk space such as 100GB need to join paid subscription for 10$ a month. File SynchronizationDropBox can be installed on Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS, Windows Phone, BlackBerry, Kindle Fire. As with GoogleDrive, DropBox uses a sync folder with a new feature called block-level sync. This feature allows users to manage selective files stored in the sync folder from the “preferences” tool accessible via the DropBox taskbar icon (on PC), (see figure2). This is very important functionality as it helps users to save their disk space and to better utilize it to store important documents that they want to access it and share it from anywhere. figure2BoxCost and StorageBox for individual offers free storage up to 10GB. Users can opt for more flexibility and storage space up to 100GB, which requires $10 per month. File SynchronizationThe solution can be run in Windows, Mac, Android, iOS, Windows Phone, BlackBerry. Box applies the same file synchronization method invented by DropBox. Adding files and folders to the Box Sync folder on computer will automatically upload them to user’s account on Box.com and mark them for Sync. Users can selectively sync folders to better manage their disk space (see figure3). In 2018, Gartner assessed 14 Enterprise File Sync and Share (EFSS) and named Box as a leader in 2018 Magic Quadrant for Content Collaboration Platforms.  OneDriveCost and StorageOneDrive is a Microsoft product and it offers up to 5GB free storage space. Users can pay 2$ a month to increase the storage size to 50GB. The solution is a great productivity tool since it is integrated with many other Microsoft products, such as Office Online, Skype, Outlook and the Office 365 suite for desktop.File SynchronizationOneDrive can be running on Windows, Mac, Android, iOS, Windows Phone and It follows the standard sync model developed by DropBox. It includes a sync folder, which is like a normal folder with the only difference being that it’s connected to the cloud. OneDrive offers simple way to sync files. Users can move individual files to OneDrive’s sync folder by right-click and selecting “move to OneDrive”. A drawback about OneDrive is that specific files can’t be synced to OneDrive. Instead, users have to go to the settings menu of the OneDrive desktop client and update the folders (see figure 4) that OneDrive selected to “auto save” On Windows 10, they are “desktop,” “pictures” and “documents.”  figure 4We also looked at some resources such as Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) to learn more about risks associated with web applications, secure software development, cloud and file security 3 Requirements and designProject’s requirements have been supplied by the project’s supervisor (Dr. Laurance) for which the team has precisely aligned the software design, project timeline and allocated resources to meet the expectations.Business Requirements	1.	Develop File Synchronization SoftwareDescription:  File synchronization software is used to store copies of files to another device or to the cloud. The files are typically available to be accessed via a Web-based portal. Some examples of file sync software include Box and Dropbox.2.	Build a ‘hub and spoke‘ file synchronizerDescription: File synchronizer will allow communication between a single central server (the ‘hub’) to which multiple other clients (the ‘spokes’) synchronize.3.	Develop a web server and two clients (desktop, mobile)Description: A web server will be developed and it will exchange data with mobile client (Android) and desktop client (Windows)Project PlanBelow table outlines the milestones along with brief description and start and end dates. 1.Milestone Title: Kick-off Meeting.Description: Conduct kick-off meeting, perform background survey of team members experiences, interests, skills and to put initial project plan.Start Date: Jan 21, 2019.End Date: Jan 27, 2019.Status: Completed.2.Milestone Title: Software Design. Description: This stage is about designing the software interface and layout and how we imagine the final look of the product.Start Date: Jan 28, 2019.End Date: Feb 3, 2019.Status: Completed.3.Milestone Title: Software Development.Description: Work to deliver the file synchronization software to be running on desktop and mobile clients. This include the development of sever to manage the operation and facilitates the communication among software clients and users.Start Date: Feb 4, 2019.End Date: March 21, 2019.Status: In-Progress.4.Milestone Title: Initial Report.Description: To build and submit an initial report to provide high level information about the how the team will execute the project.Start Date: Jan 29, 2019.End Date: Feb 7, 2019.Status: Completed.5.Milestone Title: Group Presentation.Description: To deliver short talk to the project supervisor and to demonstrate the group initial software design and share the project plan.Start Date: Feb 8, 2019.End Date: Feb 8, 2019.Status: Completed.6. Milestone Title: Software Testing.Description: To conduct unit testing to test the software, its components and services to ensure efficient solution, reliable services, and secured implementation.Start Date: March 15, 2019.End Date: March 21, 2019.Status: Completed.7. Milestone Title: Final Report.Description: To submit the final report, describing complete information about the software and the project lifecycle, detailing some important milestones and providing the readers with general information about the solution.Start Date: Feb 8, 2019.End Date: March 28, 2019.Status: In-Progress.8. Milestone Title: Final Presentation.Description: To put together slides to visually descripting the project deliverables including the final report and demonstrate the solution lively and to answer the supervisor questions.Start Date: March 22, 2019.End Date: March 29, 2019.Status: In-progress.Design ModelThe team has decided to follow the strategy of capitalizing on existing experiences and skills to save time and to deliver an efficient solution.Some of the team members had the opportunity to develop android applications and others had the chance to build windows applications. Therefore, it was wise to go with those platforms since the expertise exists in the group, in addition; those platforms are reliable and widely used by users.The following flow charts show the high-level design of the solution as well as detailed design for the Android and Windows clients. Design Flow ChartMobile application Interface Design PrinciplesWe understand that designing mobile application is very different than designing desktop application. Therefore, we have got into mobile design mindset before starting designing the mobile app.We designed the mobile client interface with great intent to impress users within the few seconds after they start using it and to retain them in the long run. We tried our best to create an excellent User Experience (UX). For that, we have searched the Internet and learned about UX and how it contributes to the success of any new application. We also spent much time in searching and looking for a variety of design examples for inspirations. We have come up with intuitive and creative mobile interface design where we have followed collection of interface design principles that include but not limited to:1.	Consistency of the design layout: We made sure to design the sections of the application to be coherent, and we provided a consistent flow of the layout throughout the app. 2.	Unambiguous Interactive Elements: Elements that are intended for interaction with users are clearly depicted. Key options such as Create, Delete and Rename are visible and easy to access by users when required by them without the need to search for hidden options in menus.3.	Single Trial Learning Experience:  Since we aim to create user friendly application, we designed the app and placed the options tin a way that allow users to anticipate the next step and the flow of the process in general without the need to remember the steps. 4.	Layered User Experience: We understand that UX should be layered. Meaning that not all the features and options of the app are visible at once. We kept some buttons hidden as we wanted to keep the interest of users for longer time and as they go deeper into the app. However, we balanced between keeping the excitement of users and the simplicity of navigating the app.5.	 Navigation Models: We know that there are many navigation models out there but we chose tab bar or Drill down because it makes the most sense of our application.6.	Orientation: Is how the keyboard looks like when users attempt to type in their data. We have selected Portrait as our application doesn’t require lots of data to be inputted.7.	Launching: When users launch the application, they will see an image that represent the logo of the software and the application name only. We aimed at not to confuse users at the beginning by adding buttons and text when they firs load the application. When users leave the app and comeback to it, they will resume operation right where they left the application.8.	First impressions: We believe on the say “ first launch make or break situation” therefore, we though of the following things:•	Icons: We have kept text to minimum, and selected polished and eye attraction icons to attract users attention and create excellent and lasting first impression. •	First launch: We ensured that users are not lost when they first launch the application and can easily deal with it without the need to seek assistance. Desktop application Design principlesSecurity Design The team worked hard to ensure not only delivering functional solution but also a secured product. For that, the team followed the security principles that were cited in OWASP Development Guide. They include:1. Minimise attack surface area??We tried to minimize the attack surface area by producing file synchronization software that is capable to perform essential functions that users are interested in  such as create, delete, rename and modify files to reduce potential threats and the possibility of exploiting vulnerabilities in the application.For example, we coded file search feature into the application. That search feature is potentially vulnerable to SQL injection attacks. But we have developed data sanitization control to prevent users from sending sql injection directly to the file server and by doing so, we are reducing the attack surface and success attempts to manipulate data.2. Establish secure defaultsThe solution was designed to be secure by default. On another word, we have disabled some privileges for non-admin users and activated other security features by default to enhance the security status of the application and reduce the likelihood of attacking the application. For example, when creating new file, users are not allowed to use special characters in the file name, absolute file path is not allowed as well as file names that could be misinterpreted by the server is prohibited.3. The principle of least privilegeThe Principle of Least Privilege (POLP) has been applied to all aspects of the application. The team has designed the solution in away that allows users to execute tasks with minimum privileges required to perform that task.For example, 4. The principle of Defense in depthThe principle of defense in depth is considered in the design. The team used different security controls to approach different risks such as data leakage, data unavailability, code injection…etc.Security Controls- Detailed Information•	Process Title: Shake-hands •	Risk:•	Security Control Title: RSA•	Process Title: Key Exchange Stage (Diffe-Hellman)•	Risk:•	Security Control:•	Process Title: Data Stream Encryption •	Risk:•	Security Control: industrial-level algorithms: AES•	ProcessTitle: File Upload•	Risk:•	Security Controls:5. Fail securelyThe application was designed to fail securely. That means, even if a failure occurs, it won’t expose sensitive data like logs or grant users additional privileges. 6. Avoid security by obscuritySecurity controls are in place to protect the application core functionalities and codes without necessary the need to rely on security by obscurity.7. Keep security simpleWe have avoided the use of complex design when developing security controls for the software. Instead, we made sure to use simple yet efficient security controls to reduce security errors.8. Fix security issues correctlyThe team address security issues that have been identified during the testing phase by determining the root causes of the problems. They are then repair it and test the repairs thoroughly. 4 ImplementationThe team has spent great deal of time searching and deciding on the best approach to execute the project and the right methodology to develop the building blocks of the software and the integration among those components. Development Guiding Principles•	Simplicity•	Previous experience•	Efficiency•	Speed of execution Programming LanguagesWe discussed among the team what are the right languages to use to develop the server, mobile client and desktop app and we agreed on the following languages:The ServerThe group decided to use Golang knows also as Go for building the server. Golang is an open source programming language that makes it easy to build simple, reliable, and efficient software. Go has great advantages such as no pointer arithmetic, no manual memory management, a standard library that seems fairly well thought out and purposefully excludes things that are misused (ex. no ECB mode for AES). The Mobile ClientJava was used to build the android mobile application. The reason for choosing Java is it is a commonly used language and some of the team members know it very well.Additionally, many development tools available for Java, and Java is a popular object oriented programming language with most phones compatible with it.The Desktop ClientC# was selected to build windows desktop application because it is targeted toward windows operating system. Some team members had the chance to use it and have the skills to develop desktop application using C#. Additionally, C# has a built-in advanced code editor and debugger, which leads to debugging errors in quicker manner. It also, has an intensive framework, which makes developing desktop client much efficient. Data Storage and Transmissions MethodSerialization was used to enable data transmission between the devices. In computer science, in the context of data storage and transmission, serialization is the process of converting a data structure or object into a sequence of bits so that it can be stored in a file or memory buffer, or transmitted across a network connection link to be "resurrected" later in the same or another computer environment. (wikibedia)Communication ProtocolThe software is running over TCP protocol through port. The team originally has thought of two protocols that are TCP and HTTP. The decision was made to use TCP, due to its simple structure and easy to follow and implement rulesExternal Tools and librariesSoftware Testing5 TeamworkOur team strongly believes on the principle "The whole is greater than the sum of its parts". The team consists of six divers minds and throughout the project lifecycle, we tried to tap into each one’s strength and challenge each other to gain a new knowledge and to make this expedience as enjoyable yet beneficial as possible. Effective Communication When we first got together, we discussed the importance of setting communication ground rules since we have come from different background and lived in different cultures. For that purpose, we developed Communication Ground Rules, of which the team agreed to fully abide by those rules. The rules aimed to reduce the possibility of misunderstanding, conflicts and to ensure commitment and respect among the team.Here are the group’s communication ground rules:1.	Mutually commit to our team’s objectives as stated in the project report or negotiate until we can make this mutual commitment.2.	All team members are expected to attend team meetings unless they are out of town or sick. If a team member is unavailable, he or she should notify the rest of the team and should share their update through email or Skype.3.	Team meetings will start and end on time.4.	Action items will be distributed within 24 hours after the meeting.5.	Understand each other’s styles.6.	Tackle issues, not people.7.	Permit one speaker at a time (avoid side conversations).8.	Bring issues to the table during the team update meeting. 9.	Explain the reasoning leading to your conclusions.10.	Invite inquiry into your views.11.	Inquire into the reasoning of others.Furthermore, the team depended on Google Docs to share links and important updates, and GIT to store project documentations.We also utilized technology such as Slack to facilitate instant conversation and to share information about the project, which has significantly saved everyone’s time.Conflict Management The team members were inspired to provide friendly project environment that enabled everyone to put the best efforts as they can as well as to build resilient team that responded to challenges, unforeseen events and different circumstances in timely manner and with the ability to continue meeting the planned dates and delivering quality outcomes.  One way to avoid conflict was to use consensus for important decisions and issues. For less important issues, we relied on the subject matter expert with input from others. The team also considered this group project as an opportunity to build the following types of skills:Develop Communication SkillsDescription: Good communication skills are the most basic skills that one can possess as an employee or student. We aim to improve the team members’ ability to communicate effectively with each other’s and to convey information in a simple and unambiguous way.Practice Diversity Description: The team consists of 6 members who come from different countries, speak different languages and have different backgrounds. We aim to learn how to recognize individual differences and understand how cultural differences can impact how people work, and interact.Project Management SkillsDescriptionTake this project as an opportunity to build project management skills that are essential to successfully complete a project that includes but not limited to planning, leadership, communication, and risk management.Teamwork SkillsDescriptionTeamwork is important for the success of this project. We aim to build teamwork skills, which are essentials at work after graduation. Each member will learn how to be a good team player by demonstrating skills such as negotiation, communication, problem solving and prioritization.6 Evaluation7 Peer AssessmentsThe team agreed to distribute the 100 score by each one equally as showing in the following table. The rational behind this decision is due to great efforts been put by everyone and as a reward for the continued commitment and hard work. NamePointsBoyang Zhang16.66Xi He16.66YiFeng Zheng16.66Yenan Huang16.66Frida Solheim16.66Samah Alghamdi16.668. Challenges1.	CommunicationDescription2.	Project timeframeDescription3.	ResourcesDescription8. Future Work1.	Item Title: Design iPhone clientDescription: In addition for the software to be compatible with Windows and Android, we are planning to further enhance its usability by developing MAC client.Added Value: More users especially those who have iphones and mac desktops are expected to use the software and benefit from its services.2.	Item Title: Introduce file versioning featureDescription: File versioning feature enables archiving the old version of a file when users attempt to delete it or replace it with a newer version and still want to keep the old versions of the original file. This feature will be configured per file and on per-device fashion and it is usually defaulted to no file versioning are used.We will decide on the file versioning strategies and will be using one of the available options such as automatically delete files if they are older than the maximum age or exceed the number of files allowed in an interval (one hour, one day, 30 days). Another strategy is to delegate file versioning method to an external program after specifying the versioning strategies.Added Value: Since dealing with electronic documents involved rapid changes, there is a need to keep old versions to restore deleted files or undo certain changes. It will also, increase collaboration among team members who might be working on the same project as each person will have the chance to work on the same file at the same time and all versions will be kept in one repository.3.	Item title: Offer paid subscription with premium features Description: We are thinking to offer specific features on paid basis since they will require special development and allocation of resources. We are planning to offer greater storage capacity, longer file versioning duration to premium users Added Value: To increase the customer satisfaction by introducing new features that help to increase their productivity and make the software more responsive to customers’ needs such as the desire to have larger storage space.4.	Item Title: Anticipate and Answer Users’ Queries: Description: When users tap a button, they want to know whether the process has started and how long will it take. As technology abstracts these actions, the users are usually kept in the dark while the process is going on. Use Toast in Android and notifications in iOS so users will be notified when a process has completed. The Gmail app is a good example of such a design, as it displays messages like “saved in draft, message sent, etc.” to inform the users about the completion of the task.Added Value: better user experience as users can anticipate how long it will take to complete their request and better manage their times.9.References1.	OWASP TOP 10 -2017, the ten most critical web application security riskshttps://www.owasp.org/images/7/72/OWASP_Top_10-2017_%28en%29.pdf.pdf2.	The Secure Coding Practices Quick Reference Guide Projecthttps://www.owasp.org/images/0/08/OWASP_SCP_Quick_Reference_Guide_v2.pdf3.	The 10 principles of mobile interface designhttps://www.creativebloq.com/mobile/10-principles-mobile-interface-design-41229104.	Dropbox vs Google Drive: the Battle of the Titanshttps://www.cloudwards.net/dropbox-vs-google-drive/#two5.	One Drive Reviewhttps://www.cloudwards.net/review/onedrive/6.	Looking for security trouble spots in Go codehttp://0xdabbad00.com/2015/04/12/looking_for_security_trouble_spots_in_go_code/7.	Security by Design Principles according to OWASP – ThreatPresshttps://blog.threatpress.com/security-design-principles-owasp/8.	Principles to adhere to while designing mobile app’s UIhttps://www.codementor.io/design/tutorial/mobile-app-ui-design-principles