Meerkats File Synchronizer
Initial report-First Draft
 
Project Description
File synchronization has grown increasingly important as enterprises use the cloud as a means for collaboration. It is also commonly used for backup and for mobile access to files. In this project, our team is collaborating to develop file synchronization software.

 Project Goals
The goals of the project are divided into two categories, technical goals and management goals.

Technical Goals
Develop File Synchronization Software
Description:  File synchronization software is used to store copies of files to another device or to the cloud. The files are typically available to be accessed via a Web-based portal. Some examples of file sync software include Box and Dropbox.

Build a ‘hub and spoke‘ file synchroniser
Description: File synchroniser will allow communication between a single central server (the ‘hub’) to which multiple other clients (the ‘spokes’) synchronise.

 Develop a web server and two clients (desktop, mobile)
Description: A web server will be developed and it will exchange data with mobile client (Android) and desktop client (Windows)


Management Goals

Develop Communication Skills
Description:Good communication skills are the most basic skills that one can possess as an employee or student. We aim to improve the team members ability to communicate effectively with each others and  to convey information in a simple and unambiguous way.
Practice Diversity 
Description: The team consists of 6 members who come from different countries, speak different languages and have different backgrounds. We aim to learn how to recognize individual differences and understand how cultural differences can impact how people work, and interact.

Project Management Skills
Description
Take this project as an opportunity to build project management skills that are essential to successfully complete a project that includes but not limited to planning, leadership, communication, risk management.

Teamwork Skills
Description
Teamwork is important for the success of this project. We aim to build teamwork skills which are essentials at work after graduation. Each member will learn how to be a good team player by demonstrating skills such as negotiation, communication, problem solving and prioritization.  


 
2.    Implementation Strategy
 
The team will follow the waterfall model throughout the project.
 
Developmental model
To comply with the project requirements, the team selected development model to be branch/pull request model based on git.
 
Programming Language
The team agreed to choose golang for the server side and C# for the desktop client as well as Java for android client.   
 
Tools
     The team are going to use the following third-party software/package (more will be involved if needed):
Boltdb(an embedded key/value database for Go.) 
Description:
          https://github.com/boltdb/bolt
 
Gin(an HTTP web framework)
Description:
 https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin
 
·       Go-cache(an in-memory cache)
Description
 
https://github.com/patrickmn/go-cache
 
3.    Project Deliverables
By completing this project, the following deliverables are achieved.
 
1.    File Storage Server 
Content is needed
 

 
3.    Mobile Client 
 It is Android solution. Users can use the solution on the go and will enjoy features such as Sign Up, Log In,  View Files, Upload Files, Rename Files, Delete Files,etc.
4.    Desktop GUI Client
The desktop GUI client is based on Windows and it includes features such as  Up, Log In,  View Files, Upload Files, Rename Files, Delete Files,etc.
 
5.    Meerkats File Synchronizer Report
This report provides detailed information about the project in terms of team members, project plan, deliverables, timeline, technologies used, challenges and much more. It acts as a central reference for users who are interested in the software. 
 
6.    Meerkats File Synchronizer Presentation 
The team will put together slides to present the work done. The team will demonstrate the solution and its layout, features and will walk the audience through the functionalities supplied by the software.
 
4.    Implementation Timeframe
Below table outlines the milestones along with brief description and expected timeframe. 
 
#
Milestone
Description
Start Date
End Date
Status 
1
Kick-off meeting
Background survey and initial plan
Jan 21, 2019
Jan 27, 2019
Completed 
2
Software Design 
Design the software layout 
Jan 28, 2019
Feb 3, 2019
Completed
3
Software Development 
Work to deliver the file synchronization software 
Feb 4, 2019
March 21, 2019
In-Progress
4
Initial
Report
To develop and submit the initial report 
Jan 29, 2019
Feb 7, 2019
In-Progress
5
Group Presentation
To demonstrate  the group initial software design and share the project plan
Feb 8, 2019
Feb 8, 2019
Not-Started 
6
Software 
Testing
 To test the software and ensure correct and secured implementation 
 March 15, 2019
 March 21, 2019
Not Started 
7
Final 
Report 
To submit the final report describing complete information about the software and the project lifecycle 
Feb 8, 2019
March 28, 2019
Not Started 
8
Final Presentation
To deliver the final presentation about the software
March 22, 2019
March 29, 2019
Not Started
 

Project Progress
After two meetings with the group, it was discovered that the language could be a barrier toward successful implementation of the project. A solution to tackle this challenge was to make sure that we speak clearly and use simple communication and ask confirming questions such as is that clear to everyone? as this is important to avoid misunderstanding and make sure that every on the same page for the every aspect of the project.

Project Organization 
This project requires each member to play different roles and carry different responsibilities throughout the project lifetime. The following roles and responsibilities are stipulated below and have been agreed by the team 
  
1.    System Developers
All team members participate in developing the software. Each individual develops a piece of the software. The developers follow specific software development guidelines to ensure consistency among the solution parts to allow efficient and smooth integration and high performance.
 
2.    System Testers
Each team member will develop a test scenario and will ask the other team members to execute it. All test scenarios will be devised and reviewed by the team members during the group project update meeting and prior to the testing phase. 
 
3.    System Documenters
Two members will build the project reports (initial and final). Inputs to the reports will be submitted by each member and according to the current stage of the project implementation plan. 
 
4.    Report Proofreading 
Upon the completion of the final report. The team will proofreading the report and share feedback prior to the final submission.

Responsibility:
Boyang Zhang: Server-side Development /Integration Test
Xi He: Android Client-side Develop / Integration Test
YiFeng Zheng: Android Client-side Development / Integration Test
Yenan Huang: Desktop Client-side Development / Integration Test
Frida Johanne Solheim: Initial Report / Desktop development /Final Report
Samah Alghamdi: Initial Report / Android development/ Final Report 

Collaboration Tools
The team will be using Google Docs to share links and important updates, GIT to store project documentations and slack to instantly communicate information regarding the project.
 
Peer Assessment
It was agreed by everyone that the final points should be divided equally by the team members. In the unlikely event of low commitment of one or more team members, the distribution of the points will be discussed again in a special meeting with everyone. 

Conflict Management 
The team members are inspired to provide friendly project environment that enables everyone to put the best efforts as they can as well as to build resilient team that respond to challenges, unforeseen events and different circumstances in timely manner and with the ability to continue meeting the planned dates and delivering quality outcomes. 
 
One way to avoid conflict is to use consensus for important decisions and issues. For less important issues, we will rely on the subject matter expert with input from others.
 
Additionally, to ensure a successful outcome, the team has setup communication ground rules that benefit everyone and are effective should conflict arise. It has been agreed to fully abide by those rules and to review them frequently to ensure they make sense to everyone.

Communication Ground Rules
Mutually commit to our team’s objectives as stated in the project report or negotiate until we can make this mutual commitment.
All team members are expected to attend team meetings unless they are out of town or sick. If a team member is unavailable, he or she should notify the rest of the team and should share their update through email.
Team meetings will start and end on time.
Action items will be distributed within 24 hours after the meeting.
Understand each other’s styles.
Tackle issues, not people.
Permit one speaker at a time (avoid side conversations).
Bring issues to the table during the team update meeting. 
Explain the reasoning leading to your conclusions.
Invite inquiry into your views.
Inquire into the reasoning of others.

 
 
 
 

