1.    Design and requirements Answer below questions for your part (server, desktop, android)
·       If you haven’t shared your solution diagram, please put it here
 
·      If you have used external tools or libraries, please mention them here and why you used them?
 
·      If you already shared with us above requirements, you may ignore this section
 
2.    Evaluation Critically. 
a.     What worked well, and what didn’t?
b.    How did you do relative to your plan? 
c.     What changes were the result of improved thinking and what changes were forced upon you? 
d.    How did your team work together? 
e.     Note that you need to show that you understand the weaknesses in your work as well as its strengths. 
f.      You may wish to identify relevant future work that could be done on your project.
 
3.    Implementation 
1.   Describe the most significant implementation details, focusing on those where unusual or detailed solutions were required.
 
2.    Quote code fragments where necessary, but remember that the examiners have full access to your source code. 
 
3.    Explain how you tested your software(e.g. unit testing) and the extent to which you tested it. 

4.   If relevant to your project, explain performance issues and how you tackled them.

Testing section
Here is a sample for the testing section. I hope it helps.
 
#
Test Category
Test Scenario
Expected Result
Actual Result(pass/fail)
Comments
Test Completion #Date
1
Functionality testing
Test file upload functionality
All types of files should be uploaded to cloud smoothly
fail
Files of type PDF were not uploaded
 
Note: The code was fixed to allow files of PDF to be uploaded
March 23
2
Security Testing
Files are being checked by Anti-Virus program before they are uploaded
Malicious files are not uploaded and being blocked by AV
fail
Infected file was successfully uploaded
March 21
3
Functionality testing
Test server ability to respond to too many requests at the same time
The server should be able to respond to 10 upload requests within 10 seconds
pass
 
March 25
4
Security Testing
Test the security control(data encryption)
Data are encrypted while stored on the data base
Pass
 
March 26



